Articles of Confederation and its weaknesses?

Different roots on American order?

What is politics and different regimes?

What are standards involving the states of politics?

The declaration of independence?

Compromises of the Constitution?

Constitution quiz 

What are enumerated, delegated, and implied powers?

John Locke came during the glorious revolution
Puritans came in 1619
Shays reblion 1786
Constituion 1787
Decalaration of indpeendnce 1776

The Exam questions asks us:
Articles of Confederation:
    Definition: The first written Constitution for the United States. Focused on state sovereignty
    Explain Concept:
    Significane
    Specifics: Granted no ability to tax, trade wars, border disputes, laws were suggestion, no uniform national currency, no chief executive to enfornce the law, 
        => shays rebellion in 1786 that needed a stronger government => lead to founders estabalish a more perfect union. One with greater but balanced with freedom
        => Required all states to amend to the constitution
    
    The Constituion of 1787:
        => created a stronger national government => levy tax, federal law has supremeacy over state, states cannot make treaty
        => the president is the chief executive => modern constitution did not need unamity to amend a constitution, no federal court, or president

Puritans persecuted people, not nice to native americans, intolerant, they had salem witch trials in 1692, but we care about them bc of american exceptionalism
 => followers of john calvin and came to america for a religous purpose => the mayflower compact: written agreement under God => John Winthrop's speech was aboard a speech

Puritans said they separated chruch and state

sovereignty
- Unitary: power is completely centralized in the national government (tyranny) such as France
- confederation: (anarchy) - divided authroity-nation/state-local
- federalism: the federal governemnt is supreme in its sphere of operation but the state has the rest

Explain how the founders that used power to offset power to balance order and liberty
Enumerated powers : article 1 section 8 line 1-17 (Congress)
Implied Powers:
Strict vs Broad Construction:
Prohibited Powers

Federick Douglas says that a slavery is a build of attainder

Reserved Powers: 10th amendment powers not delegated to the federal government is then grandtedto the state
Reserved powers = state police powers "health, safety, morals and General welfare"


Consent: Operatoive principla of self-governemnt becuase we are all equal. No one is so great to be a god or is a beast. 

Pure Democracy: The founding fathers did not like Athens, a small territory. => Everyone has a vote and has direct voice in the government
(Plebecitarianism)


Republic: 
(Rome) had problems with the tribe's representation


Constituion has 7 articles
    Article 4: The constitutional requirement that each state recognizes and upholds laws passed by another state. A state may not discriminate against citizens of
               other states, and each must give "full faith and credit" to official acts of other states and guarantee every state a republican form of government

    Article 5: Authorizes amendments to the Constituion. Two-thirds of both the House and Senate must approve the amendment. Then three-fourths of the states must ratify
               it - either through their state legislatures or through state conventions. 
    
    Article 6: The Supremacy Clause makes the Constituion the supreme law of the land. Federal laws override state laws and also specifies there must be no religious test
               for holding any federal office. 
        Example: McCulloch vs Maryland (1819) affirmed the constitutionality of the national bank. The federal government is supreme and state cannot tax a creature of the federal government
        However, the federal government is only supreme in its sphere of operation

    Article 7: Announed that the Constituion would go into effect after nine states had ratified

What is meant by "all men are created equal"?

Different interpretations?

Jefferson's original understanding of the Delcaration of independence?

The original composition of the slave trade

Fundamental rights of the declaration of independence?
    life liberty and pursuit of happiness, consent, right to revolution


The constitution is a bundle of Compromises
- Compromise over the representation (how would the republic factor the representation)
        - under the articles, they had 1 vote each (equal representation)
            Problem laws were a mere suggestion
    - However, fllowing the articles of confederation there was a dsipute between large and small states on repersetation
        Large Sates: MASs, Penn, Virginia
            => The Virginia Plan by Madison proposes a strong national government gave veto power over state laws (proportional representation ofstates)
        Small: NJ, RI, New hamshpire
            => The New Jersey Plan by William Patterson proposes equal representation but called for a federal judiciary to decide the law
            => Small states were upset that they are going to be outvoted 

    The Great Compromise
    --------------------
    Roger Sherman proposed the Connectivute Compromise compromised with a bicameral chamber (House -> Population based with 2 year terms )  1 representative per 700,000 (democractic)
                                                                                        and (Senate -> Eqaul representation with 6 year terms) 2 senators per state (aristocratic)

Slavery & The Constituion:
--------------------------

Proslavery: Right to property enslaved. The South argued that the South is to protect slavery.  

Dual Nature of slaves
1. people
2. Slavery

William Lloyd Garrison was an American abolitionist.

Roger B Taney and John C Calhoun supported Slavery

Madison was a slaveholder and said that "where slavery exists, Republican theory becomes more fallacious"
June 30th => Madison said that there is a division between the North and South on Slavery => Madison recognizes that slavery will destroy the government

3 Provisions on the Constituion
    3/5 Compromise
        South states wanted slaves to count towards the representation in the House
        North states did not want slaves to count
        Agreed on the 3/5 compromise

    Prohibiton of a ban on foreign slave trade
        We allow slave trade till 1808 then it is illegal to import slaves from Africa, but then we started to slave trade domestic. 

    Fugitive Slave Provision-Runaways

        Harriet Tubman did reconisance to stoppen the fugitive slave act

    Language => Calls slaves "other Persons" and slavery is not mentioned. Color is not mentioned, race is not mentioned
    Used euthenatic language to soften and ligtens things. Disguises more offensive. The south called them "peculiar southern institution"

    Douglas claims that they slaves are refeerred to "person" 

    Governor Morris says that if the South doesnt get what they wnat then the South is going to leave. 
    He says states with slavery is nefarious and evil 

    In September 12, the  constitution said "justly" but changed it to "legally" on september 15, because they did not want to say slavery is morally correct
    Empowers the national to get rid of slavery => The NorthWest Ordinacne was law that was passed to ban slavery
        -> The Northwest ordinance banned slavery in 1787 hoped that this ban would kill slavery elsewhere
    
    Lincoln saves that slavery is a cancer 