Chapter 5 Civil Liberties
Limitations on the power of the federal government => Rights in terms of immunity from government interference

Judicial Rule vs Judicial Standard
Judicial Rule: Hard-and-fast boundaries between what is lawful and what is not
  Example: Trimester scheme in Roe vs Wade

Judicial Standard: Guiding principles that help governments make judgement calls
  Example: "Undue Burden" on abortion (great persuasion) 

Bill of Rights are intended to protect minority rights against the tyranny of the majorityyou
Protection on hate speech depends on context

Hate Speech Cases: 
Snyder vs Phelps: Mathew Synder was a marine that died in Iraq. Phelps was the head of his own church, West Crow Baptist. Phelps argued that the US fatalities in Iraq aws a devine punishment for allowing gays in the army. 
Protested funerals for the gays. Phelps hated the pope and Roman catholics.
  => Synder's father saw Phelps on TV and sued Phelps. The SCOTUS protected Phelps because it did not present clear and immediate danger because Snyder's father was far away.

Matal vs Tam (2018): Includes a pop rock bland called the "The Slants", "Slants" is a derogatory term for asian americans. The band leader wanted to reclaim the "slant" as a positive word. 
The US patent group denied Tam's trademark "The Slants"... The SCOTUS defended Tam's trademark "The Slants" as protected free speech 

Reveals that hate speech is protected but if it causes violent action then illegal. 

Symbolic Speech:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virginia vs Black (2003): Involves a Virginia law (statute) which bans cross burning
At a KKK event, clan member Barry Black burned a cross in highway 95 on Barry Black's personal property. His neighbor called the police.
  => Protected speech as the crossed was burned on private property
  => Developed the "true threat" doctrine: Hate is punishable if it creates a "true threat" => Targeting someone and threatening them
  Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas argued that whenever you burn a cross, it is a crime. 

Texas vs Johnson (1989): Gregory Johnson burned the American flag outside the Republican national convention. SCOTUS protected Johnson although the court is conservative
The govt cannot punish people that are not patriotic.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Religous Liberties:
Nonestablishment clause: Congress shall pass no law respecting an establishment of religion. => Prevents the establishment of a national religion. => Creates a wall of separation for church and state but how high is this wall
    Interpretations of the Nonestablishment Clause:
        1. Separationist interpretation wants high separation of church and state
        2. Accomodationist believes that religion plays a huge role in America. As long as the government is nuetral for all religions, then the non-establishment clause is not violated

    Everson vs the Board of Education (1947): incorporated the nonestablishment clausements => empowers federal judges to review state laws regarding the nonestablishment clause.
    Engel vs Vitale (1962): The state of NY developed a prayer that respected God => The SCOTUS struck it down as it violated the non-establishemnt clause
    Lemon vs Kurtzman (1973): The SCOTUS developed a standard whether or not the state transgressed the wall of separation (The Lemon Test). 
        - The law must have a valid secular purpose.
        - Neither advance nor inhibit religion. 
        - Cannot involve an excessive entangle of religion.
    Lemon vs Kurtzman has been abandoned as it is hard to apply. 
    Kennedy vs Bremerton School District (2022) reversed Lemon vs Bremerton ruled that govt may not suppress an individual from engaging in personal religious observances.

Free Exercise clause: 
Reynolds vs United States (1879) ruled that a federal law prohibiting polygamy did not violate the free exercise clause of the First Amendment. => Inciting religion to defend a crime is NOT valid. 
Sherbert vs Verner: Sherbert observed her sabbath day on Saturday instead of Sunday and was denied unemployment benefits
  => She sued and the SCOTUS protected her unemployment => Does the government have an interest to deny their unemployment?
Oregon vs Smith: on payote drug => made it easier to uphold the law provided the law is applied nuetrally. 

Congress passed Religious Freedom Restoration Act tried to protect exercise of religion 

Right to privacy is no where explicitly mentioned in the Bill of Rights 
The SCOTUS in Griswald vs Connecticut implied that the:
    - 4th amendment which protects against unreasonable search and siezures
    - 9th amendments says the Bill of Rights is not complete 
    - 3rd amendment which protects aganist quarter troops implies that
the right to privacy is implied => extended to abortion in Roe vs Wade
  => Developed a trimester scheme to decide when abortion is illegal
  => Replaced with Casey vs Planned Parenthood (1992) via the "undue burden" test
  => Reversed by Dobbs vs Jackson (2022), the federal government no longer protects abortion by the right to privacy

2nd Amendment was incorporated to the states by Heller vs DC (2008) 
    => Expanded by McDonald vs City of Chicago (2010)

8th Amendment 

Due process provides rights to the accused
4th: right of the people to be secure in their houses from search and seizures. Probable cause and search and warrant are needed to search a house
    => Mapp vs Ohio (1961) established the exclusionary rule 
5th: gaurantee protection against double jeopardy and protection against self-incrimination
6th: Guarantees the rights of criminal defendants, including the right to a public trial without unncessary delay, right to a lawyer 
    => Gideon vs Wainright (1963)

Miranda warnings were established: The police have to remind you of Miranda rights in order to be arrested (Miranda vs Arizona, 1962)