1.	What is the study of politics about and how does it differ from other "sciences"? 
    What is legitimacy? Discuss Aristotle's classification of different kinds of regimes. 

        Politics: - Who gets what, when and how. Every society has limited amounts of money, prestige, power, and other desirables.
                    Politics helps determine how we distribute them-to which people, in what amounts, under which rules. 
                  - How a society makes it collective decisions. 
                  - The activity of ruling and being ruled, of governing. 
                  - Politics asks (1) Who governs? (2) To what ends? What ends is power used towards?
                        Power: the ability to a get another person to act in accordance with the first person's intention. 

        Other "sciences" have formulas and are in the realm of practical action. Involves, intellect, free choice, contingency, variable circumstances,
        but does not have the same degree of certainty as math. 
            - Psychology: psyche logos (account) of psyche
            - Biology: Bios logos (account) of life
            - Economics: scarcity, limited ability to satisfy unlimited wants. Production, exchange, distribution of wealth in society.
        
        Legitimacy: Just exercise of power that benefits the common good in accordance with the rule of law and standards of right. 
                    Power is exercised justly and rightly. 
        
        Aristotle's classification of regimes:

            true                    one                       few                          many
            -----------             -----------               -----------                  -----------
            common good             monarchy                  aristocracy                  republic

            perverted
            -----------
            self-interested         tyranny                   oligarchy/plutocracy         Democracy/mobocracy


2.	Discuss the Declaration of Independence as a covenant, an indictment, and the source of the American creed.
    Identify the core principles of the Declaration? 

        Covenant: a mutual agreement that provides for joint action to achieve defined goals invoking religious or moral authority. 
            On July 4, 1776, American leaders issued a Declaration of Independence explaining their decision to break away from England. 
                We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created 
                equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable 
                rights that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
            The role of the government is securing each individual's right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
            "And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge
                to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor"
            Honor above interest.

        Indictment: Takes a legal form going back english common law => an initial state of trial for the accused to determine 
                    if there is sufficient eveidence to accuse someone of doing wrong. 
            The Declaration of Independence provides a bill of particulars of how general prinipals is life, liberty, persuit of happiness were violated:
                1. The judges are at the mercy of the king
                2. He made us quarter troops in our hoom
                3. Dictatorship
                4. Taxes without consent
                5. Deprival of trial by jury
                6. For transporting us beyond seas to be tried for pretented offenses. 
                7. Transporting larger armies to complete the works of death, desolation and tyranny => brought foreign mercinaries to kill us (the Heshians)
        
        Source of American Creed: 
            Our fundamental beliefs that we share as Americans. The political culture and habits of the heart that we share and unites us. Our moral covenant
            that binds us together.  

        The Core Principles of the Declaration of Independence:
            1. Equality
            2. Consent
            3. Liberty
            4. Popular Sovereignty and Self-Government
            5. Unalienable Rights
            6. Pursuit of happiness
            7. Social Contract
            8. Right to Revolution

3.	Explain Three Roots of American Order and their influence on American politics. 
    Mention specific thinkers, documents, ideas. 

Roots of American Order:
1. Puritanism: The Puritans were English Protestants in the 16th and 17 centuries who sought to rid the
               Church of Roman Catholic practices.

               Tocqueville on the influence of Puritanism in American political culture: "Puritanism was not only a religious doctrine
               it also blendd at several points with the most democractive and republican theoreis"

               Pennyslania was a holy expiriment: William Penn established Pennsylvania and sought to emplace his Quaker ideals
                   1. Fair treatment of native americans
                   2. No military
                   3. New approach to governnace: free to the people under it, be whatever the frame, where the laws rule, and people are a party to those law
                   4. Freedom religion
                   
               puritans in mass bay considered themselves a collection of saints and they persecuted Quakers
               
               The Puritans expressed American Exceptionalism. John Winthrop described America as a "city on the hill" and expected "the eyes of all people on us". 
               America has a special purpose for the world

               pligrims in plymouth: English settlers who traveled to America on the Mayflower who fled the English religous persecution. also maintained sep of church and state 
               Rhode island - Roger Williams was a puritan who preached the separation of church and state
               Maryland- Religious Toleration ACt: the fist law in North America requiring religious tolerance for Christians

                Puritans made the concept of equality and consent:
                    - town hall meetings
                    - Universal education (public schools)
                    - Middle class families


2. Enlighment Rationalism: Pioneered by John Locke, the Enlightmnet was an intellectual and philosophical
                           movement that occured in Europe. The enlighment included a range of ideas centered
                           on human happiness, pusuitm of knowledge by means of reason and the evidence of the senses
                           Ideals include natural law, liberty, progress, toleration, fraternity, constituitonal government
                           , and separation of church and state. John Locke is the father of liberalism based on the rights of
                           individual, liberty, consent of the governed, political equality, right to private property and equality 
                           before the law
                           
                           The Social Contract
                           Locke believed the state of nature has a law of nature to govern it. Reason is the law of nature that being all
                           are equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty, or possessions
                           People will seek out and join a society with others who are already united or have a mind to unite for mutual
                           preservations of life, liberty, property

                           The Declaration of Independence political philosophy:
                             1. All people are equal
                             2. Their creator endowed them with rights that cannot be taken away
                             3. These rights include life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness
                             4. People form government to protect those rights
                             5. Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. 

                           Protection of inalienable rights

                           Consent: "men being... by Nature, all free, equal and independent, no one can be put out of his Estate, and subjected to
                           the political power of another, without his own consent"
                           1. Social contract
                           2. Form of Government
                           3. Elections
                           4. Right to Revoluiton => Locke says whenever there is a long train of abuses (life, liberty, and property) and usurpations, 
                                                     period of time, then the people ahve a right to revolution
                           

3. British constituitonalism: 
                              The Magna Carta
                              is a royal charter of rights agreed to by King John of England. The Magna Carta made peace between
                              the unpopular king and a group of rebel barons, it promised the protection of church rights, protection
                              for the barons from illegal imprisonment, access to swift justice, and limitations on feudal payments to 
                              the Crown, to be implemented through a council of 25 barons.

                              - consent and no taxation without representation
                              - Due process: no official shall place a man on trial upon his own unsupported statement, without producing 
                                             credible witnesse to the truth of it. 
                                             
                                             No free man shall be seized or imprisoned, or stripped of 
                                             his rights or possessions, or outlawed or exiled, or deprived of his standing in any other way
                                             nor will we proceed with force against him, or send others to do so, except by the lawful judgement
                                             of his equals or by the law of the land

                                             No one will sell, to no one deny or delay right or justice

                             English Bill of Rights, 1689 => Glorious Revolution
                               - Levying money for the Crown or by pretence of prerogative without the grant of Parliament
                                 for longer time is granted by Parliament is illegal
                               - Raising/maintaining an army in time of peace unless it is allowed by Parliament is illegal
                               - Subjects which are PRotestants may have arms for their defense suitable to their conditions and as allowed by law
                               - Election of members of Parliament to be free
                               - Freedom of speech and debates or proceedings in Parliament may not be impeached or questioned in any court or place 
                                 out of Parliament
                               - Excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines


4. Republicanism:
                       Free and equal citizens under the constituiton - for law, liberty, constituiton
                       Public spiritedness & civic virtue: "ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country"
                       self-governance under rule of law
                       Washington was influenced by Cato's conservatism and Cincinnatus's reliquishing of power (Cincinnatus was a military leader who 
                       was given complete control of the state, but reliquished his power once he won the war in 16 days. he returned to his farm)
    
4.	Identify and explain the 3 provisions of the Constitution that deal with slavery? 
    What does the language of the Constitution suggest about slavery? What is the significance of the Northwest Ordinance?

        Article 1 Section 2: Counting Slaves Towards Representation => Three-Fifths Compromise
            "Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among several States which may be included within this Union,
             according to their respective Numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons, including those 
             bound to Service for a Term of Years and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other Persons"

        Article 1 Section 9: Prohibition of Ban on Foreign Slave Trade till 1808:
            "The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited
             by Congress prior to Year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or duty may be imposed on such importation not exeeding 
             ten dollars for each person" 

        Article 4 Section 2: Fugitive Slave Provision-Runaways:
            "No Person held to Service or Labour in one State under the Laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of Any Law or Regulation
             there in, be discharged from such Service or Labour, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due"

        The Constitution uses euphemistic (friendly/sugar-coats) language => No mention of the word "slave" or "slavery" in the Constitution.
                                                                          => No mention of race or color
                                                                          => Slaves are referred to as "persons" - potential recognition for freedom according to Frederick Douglass

        The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 banned slavery and involuntary servitude. However, slaves entering the Northwest Ordinance may de detained and deported back to his owner.

5.	Discuss the separation of powers. Explain how separated institutions share power and provide an example of how this is done in each case. 
    You must mention Federalist 51 as an explanation of how this works. 
        
        Separation of Powers, Articles I, II, III
            Article 1 Section 1: Legislative Branch => "All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, 
                                                        which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representative."

                435 members in house but seats are based on population. Population of each district is about 720,000

            Article 2 Section 1: Executive Branch => "The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States."

            Article 3 Section 1: Judicial Branch => "The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court,
                                                     and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."

        Separated Institutions Sharing Power 
            Shared Legislative Power
                - Congress-Primary Legislative Authority
                - President can veto
                - Supreme Court can exercise judicial review
            Shared Executive Power
                - President-Primary Executive Authority
                - Congress-Impeaches the President but the senate must vote 2/3 super-majority to remove from office. 
                - Judiciary-judicial review from Marbury vs Madison (1803)
            Shared Judicial Power
                - Federal Courts-Primary Judicial Authority
                - Congress-establishes size of Federal Courts, impeachment
                - President-Appoints all federal judges
        
        In Federalist 51, Madison writes "the great security against a gradual concentration of the several powers in the same 
        department, consists in giving to those who administer each department the necessary constitutional means and personal motives
        to resist encroachments of the others... Ambition must be made to counteract ambition." => Harnessing self-interest for each branch 
        will pit the government against itself. 

6.	Discuss the Articles of Confederation and explain how the Constitution sought to remedy its defects in creating "a more perfect Union." 
    Provide specific examples. 

        The Articles of Confederation was the first constitutional government of the United States. Confederation is an alliance and loose association of states
            - National Government was weak and dependent upon the states
            - Unicameral Legislature
            - Equal Representation of States
            - 2/3 Supermajority to pass laws
            - Unanimity Required to Amend
        
        Weaknesses:
            - No executive power to enforce laws
            - No power to tax. Federal government had to rely on voluntary contributions to operate. 
            - Laws DO NOT apply to individuals
            - No national court to judge laws
            - Trade wars among states
            - Border disputes
            - International disrespect
            - No uniform currency
            - Inability to pay army
            - Inability to pay debt
            - Domestic unrest
            - Anarchy of state legislatures

        Shays' Rebellion (1787) shook the articles of Confederation 
            Daniel Shays and other revolutionary war veterans returned home and their farms were foreclosed. By December, the rebellion seizes 6 courthouses and an
            armory. Mass government asks for help from national government but the national government said they cannot help => Private army is raised by Benjamin Franklin
            Called for a convention to revise the Articles of Confederation but scrapped it to get the modern day Constitution of 1787. Shays' Rebellion influenced the founding
            fathers that we need a strong federal government. 

        The modern-day Constitution of 1787 provides Enumerated/Delegated Powers for the federal government: 
            Article I Section 8, line 17
                "Congress shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, Excises, to pay Debts and provide for the common Defense and general Welfare of the United States..."
                "To borrow money on the credit of the U.S."
                "To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several states..."
                "To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and ix the Standard of Weights and Measures."
                "To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries."

7.	Distinguish between 2 kinds of popular government, pure democracy versus republicanism.
    What are their similarities and how do they differ? 

        Pure Democracy: People are the direct rules
            Prone to tyranny by the majority (mobocracy)
            Everyone has a vote and has a direct voice (plebitarianism)
                Example: Athens


        Republicanism: A government in which citizens rule indirectly and make government decisions through their elected representatives.
            Citizens rule indirectly via representatives. 
            Features checks and balances and separation power,
                Example: Roman republic

        Similarities: 
            - Rule of the majority => "The voice of the pople is the voice of God"
            - State government and authority resides in the people.
        

        Differences
            - A republic has a separation of power and features checks and balances, but the democracy does not.
            - Democracy is vulnerable to tyranny of the majority.



8.	Discuss the Great Compromise at the Constitutional Convention. Identify the other proposals that it combined. 
        At the Constituional Convention, there was a dispute between large states (led by MA, PA, VA) and small states (led by NJ, RI, NH) in terms of population
        over the representation in government. Under the Articles of Confederation, each state had 1 vote (equal representation) and laws were a suggestion.

            The large states proposed the Virginia Plan by Madison:
                1. Congress would have two chambers with representation in both chambers based on state population
                2. Citzens would vote for members of the House of Representatives. The House would vote for senators from a list of candidates.
                3. Congress would elect the president.
                4. A national judiciary with one or more supreme courts would be established, with life tenure

            The small states proposed the New Jersey Plan by Paterson. 
                1. Congress would have one chamber where each state has one vote in Congress, regardless of size. 
                2. Congress would elect a committee to serve as the federal executive for one term only
                3. The executive committee would select the supreme court, which would be responsible for foreign policy, economic policy, and impeachment of federal officials
                4. The national government could tax the states and would have the exclusive right to tax imports
            
            The Connecticut Compromise (The Great Compromise): Roger Sherman of Connecticut proposed a compromise
                1. House of Representatives would be based on population
                2. Senate would have two representatives chosen by the public and the state
                3. The president is one individual, independent of Congress, who could represent the public. 
                4. The president would be chosen by the Electoral College. Each state would select individuals known as electors who vote on the president. 
                   States get electors based on the number of representatives and senators a state has. 


9.	Discuss Federalism and two specific provisions of the Constitution related to it. 
    Mention the different approaches to federalism throughout American history - for example, dual federalism.

        Reserved Powers: 10th Amendment => "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constituion, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people there of"
                                                => The Federal government can create a Department of Education but cannot tell the Department what to teach us. 

        Supremacy Clause: Article 6, Section 2 => The constituitonal declaration that the national government's authority prevails over any conflicting state or local government's claims, provided the power is granted
                                                  to the federal government => McCulloch vs Maryland (1819) over the creation of the national bank 

        Dual Federalism: also known as "Layered Cake" has a clear division of governing authority and responsibilities between national and state government. 
                         The different levels of government are (1) national, (2) state, and (3) local. Each level of government was supreme within its own band of influence.
                         For the first 150 years, the United States practiced dual federalism
                            The federal government managed international relations by trading, wars, diplomacy, and immigration.
                            The federal government managed "internal improvements" such as transportation, a single currency, and overseeing westward expansion. 
                            The federal government regulated relations and commerce between the states. 

                            The states oversaw education, marriage, divorce, professional regulation, business contracts, driving, drunking, and burials. 

        Cooperative Federalism: Also called marble cake federalism, a system of mingled governing authority, with functions across national and state government. 
                                    During the New Deal of the 1930s, programs involved both the state and federal government working together. Officials in Washington provided federal funds through grants-in-aimed
                                    national funds accompanied by specific instructions to state and local officials about how the money could be spent. 
                                        Example: During the Great Depression, governors and state leaders accepted these grants for roads, bridges, hospitals, health care clinics, and Social Security payments for seniors. 
        
        Contested Federalism: A system of mingled governing authority marked by high partisan conflict in which both parties try to influence policy by 
                              shifting functions among national, state, and local governments; also known as super-swirl cake federalism.
                              Federal, state, and local government all compete for influence over programs. The Reagan administration provided national funding (block grants) to the state and local
                              government with relatively few restrictions or requirements to implement specific policy areas, such as education, transportation, or health. The Bush and Obama adminstration
                              further would set program goals and relied on state innovation to achieve them. For example, the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) aimed to deliver private health insurance to 28
                              million Americans. The states were incentivized to build insurance exchanges where individuals could shop among competing health insurance plans. The federal government would step
                              in and build websites if the states could not meet the demand. 


10.	Identify Articles 4-7 in the Constitution. What are these articles about? What do they say?  Summarize their major provisions and include a specific example of each. 
        Constituion has 7 articles however:
            Article 4: The constitutional requirement that each state recognizes and upholds laws passed by another state. A state may not discriminate against citizens of
                    other states, and each must give "full faith and credit" to official acts of other states and guarantee every state a republican form of government
                        Example: A drivers license issued in one state is honored in every other state.

            Article 5: Authorizes amendments to the Constituion. Two-thirds of both the House and Senate must approve the amendment. Then three-fourths of the states must ratify
                    it - either through their state legislatures or through state conventions. 
                        Example: The only amendment to be ratified through state conventions is the 21 Amendment, which in 1933 repealed teh prohibition of alcohol.        

            Article 6: The Supremacy Clause makes the Constituion the supreme law of the land. Federal laws override state laws and also specifies there must be no religious test
                    for holding any federal office. 
                Example: McCulloch vs Maryland (1819) affirmed the constitutionality of the national bank. The federal government is supreme and state cannot tax a creature of the federal government
                However, the federal government is only supreme in its sphere of operation

            Article 7: Announed that the Constituion would go into effect after nine states had ratified

Full credit will be given for questions that:
a.	Correctly define and identify all key terms in the question.  
b.	Correctly explain the key concepts and content related to the question. 
c.	Correctly include several specifics for each question. 
d.	Correctly state, where appropriate, the significance of the concepts. Why is this important to the study of American politics. 
