Roots of American Order:
1. Puritanism: The Puritans were English Protestants in the 16th and 17 centuries who sought to rid the
               Church of Roman Catholic practices.

               Tocqueville on the influence of Puritanism in American political culture: "Puritanism was not only a religious doctrine
               it also blendd at several points with the most democractive and republican theoreis"

               Pennyslania was a holy expiriment: William Penn established Pennsylvania and sought to emplace his Quaker ideals
                   1. Fair treatment of native americans
                   2. No military
                   3. New approach to governnace: free to the people under it, be whatever the frame, where the laws rule, and people are a party to those law
                   4. Freedom religion
                   
               puritans in mass bay considered themselves a collection of saints and they persecuted Quakers
               
               The Puritans expressed American Exceptionalism. John Winthrop described America as a "city on the hill" and expected "the eyes of all people on us". 
               America has a special purpose for the world

               pligrims in plymouth: English settlers who traveled to America on the Mayflower who fled the English religous persecution. also maintained sep of church and state 
               Rhode island - Roger Williams was a puritan who preached the separation of church and state
               Maryland- Religious Toleration ACt: the fist law in North America requiring religious tolerance for Christians

               



2. Enlighment Rationalism: Pioneered by John Locke, the Enlightmnet was an intellectual and philosophical
                           movement that occured in Europe. The enlighment included a range of ideas centered
                           on human happiness, pusuitm of knowledge by means of reason and the evidence of the senses
                           Ideals include natural law, liberty, progress, toleration, fraternity, constituitonal government
                           , and separation of church and state. John Locke is the father of liberalism based on the rights of
                           individual, liberty, consent of the governed, political equality, right to private property and equality 
                           before the law
                           
                           The Social Contract
                           Locke believed the state of nature has a law of nature to govern it. Reason is the law of nature that being all
                           are equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty, or possessions
                           People will seek out and join a society with others who are already united or have a mind to unite for mutual
                           preservations of life, liberty, property

                           The Declaration of Independence political philosophy:
                             1. All people are equal
                             2. Their creator endowed them with rights that cannot be taken away
                             3. These rights include life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness
                             4. People form government to protect those rights
                             5. Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. 

                           Protection of inalienable rights

                           Consent: "men being... by Nature, all free, equal and independent, no one can be put out of his Estate, and subjected to
                           the political power of another, without his own consent"
                           1. Social contract
                           2. Form of Government
                           3. Elections
                           4. Right to Revoluiton => Locke says whenever there is a long train of abuses (life, liberty, and property) and usurpations, 
                                                     period of time, then the people ahve a right to revolution
                           

3. British constituitonalism: 
                              The Magna Carta
                              is a royal charter of rights agreed to by King John of England. The Magna Carta made peace between
                              the unpopular king and a group of rebel barons, it promised the protection of church rights, protection
                              for the barons from illegal imprisonment, access to swift justice, and limitations on feudal payments to 
                              the Crown, to be implemented through a council of 25 barons.

                              - consent and no taxation without representation
                              - Due process: no official shall place a man on trial upon his own unsupported statement, without producing 
                                             credible witnesse to the truth of it. 
                                             
                                             No free man shall be seized or imprisoned, or stripped of 
                                             his rights or possessions, or outlawed or exiled, or deprived of his standing in any other way
                                             nor will we proceed with force against him, or send others to do so, except by the lawful judgement
                                             of his equals or by the law of the land

                                             No one will sell, to no one deny or delay right or justice

                             English Bill of Rights, 1689 => Glorious Revolution
                               - Levying money for the Crown or by pretence of prerogative without the grant of Parliament
                                 for longer time is granted by Parliament is illegal
                               - Raising/maintaining an army in time of peace unless it is allowed by Parliament is illegal
                               - Subjects which are PRotestants may have arms for their defense suitable to their conditions and as allowed by law
                               - Election of members of Parliament to be free
                               - Freedom of speech and debates or proceedings in Parliament may not be impeached or questioned in any court or place 
                                 out of Parliament
                               - Excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines


4. Republicanism:
                       Free and equal citizens under the constituiton - for law, liberty, constituiton
                       Public spiritedness & civic virtue: "ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country"
                       self-governance under rule of law
                       Washington was influenced by Cato's conservatism and Cincinnatus's reliquishing of power (Cincinnatus was a military leader who 
                       was given complete control of the state, but reliquished his power once he won the war in 16 days. he returned to his farm)