We are still on chapter 2 and 3

Talk about declaration of independence and the constituition

Midterm: (consitst of essays taht will be sent in exam ) 10 questions given and he will ask me 4 or 5

Pick 3 of the 4 roots and explain of american political water.

What is politcalas aristotle just and hurdle regimes?
True: Rule of 1 monary
Rule of (few) 2 is aristocracy 
Rule of many is republic

Just vs cruel: do they serve themselves or the community

Pure democracy vs republic


Roots of american order
1. puritanism: who, what, when, where, why? Trying to purify the English church of remeannts of roman catholocism
Followers of John CAlvin... 2 groups: pilgrims and puritans

Referendum of the catholic faith and wanted to continue PRotestestant instead of catholicsi

Purantism were he original settlers, were covenants and (democracy), had american execeptionalism

Specifics: John winthrop a puritan that went to Mass Bay and he's important BC he wrote a speech on board to america (model Christian community)
Describes america as "city on hill" => america has a unique mission on the world


2. Englightments: 


The Moral covenant of america
- declaration of independence (mid term exam questions)
Exam: constitution provides a set of norms or rules that govern a politcal community
Describes the process and norms on how things ought to be... provides limit and boundaries to the exercise of power
Can be written or unwritten... the british constitution is unwritten

Exam: The longest unbroken constitution in history today with no revolution?
America has the longest unbroken in constitution

27 amendments in America

Norm: standard of how things hsould be => rule of measure

Federick Doughlas is from rochester... and is a former slave, taught himself how to read and write. 
Doughlas is an abolitionist

In 1852, in the corinthian hall "the rock" douglas delivered a aspeech "what to the slave is the 4th of july"
Warning against the US to transfer into a slave republic... Highlights the hypocrisy of slavery and the declaration of indepdence
A ring-bolt: an achor that keeps the boat docked. The declaration keeps the ship steady
 a ship rerpesent freedom. Cheepaseek bay is a safe-place for slaves... Slaves use water to escape

Douglas says 4th of july is a mockery of the declaration of independance => Principals of america is good but we do not see it in practice
Dred SCott vs Sandra (1857)

The image in priciple vs practice is from british abolition

American creed that defines as america: ?????????????


Jefferson on the declaration of independence: an expression of the American mind
Consider how the declaration reflects the root of the american order
Cicero: he was roman
Sideny: A british republican executed by the monarchy
He wrote the summary of rights in the north american town

Declaration of independence: provides a legitimate teaching of government => provides a reason to break away from government
1. appeal to world and to reason: we take this revolution on decent respect for opinion of mankind and on laws of nature nature
2. Indictment: Takes a legal form going back english common law: an initial state of trial for the accused => to determine if there is sufficient eveidence to accuse someone of doing wrong
2a) bill of particulars 
2b) principals
3. covenant:pledge our lives and fourtunes to sacred ...


Text of Declaration opening: "when, in the course of human events, it becomes to dissolve the political bands

Know this: eXam
Principals: equality, consent, inalienable rights, life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness, popular sovereignty, right to revolution 
Consent: I must have a say in how i am governed => voting, right to revolution, 
Right to revolution: whenever life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness, we can overthrow the government
Prudence: pratical wisdom we do not resolve the government if we do not agree => only can overthrow if there is a long history of abuse
"We hold these truths to be self-evident" 

Bill of particulars: explanation of how generals prinipals is life, liberty, persuit of happiness were violated 
1. The judges are at the mercy of the king
2. He made us quarter troops in our hoom
3. Dictatorship
4. Taxes 
5. Deprival of trial by jury
6. For transporting us beyond seas to be tried for pretented offenses. 
7. Transporting larger armies to complete the works of death, desolation and tyranny => brought foreign mercinaries to kill us (the Heshians)

Equality => ?
1. Exclusivist -> Roger B. Taney all white, property owning men are equal
2. Historicist -> Carl Becker says no universal truth to history, truth is relative to the time
3. Universal -> Jefferson, Lincoln, MLK applies to all human beings 

Also, when you are on someone else's property, you are not superior to them
The differences in human beings does not mean we can degrade or promote supriority

The founders thought slavery would die out but it never did... it only embraced slavery (Cornerstone speeech march 21, 1861)

