Midterm Exam: Roots of American Order and delcararion of indpeendance and artilces of confederation

The declartion of independance is an indictment: Brings charges against someone
Lists the grievences of the king => The king of great Britain has abused his powers and List gneral principals and how they were violated

The laws of nature and nature is God => inalienable rights are garanteed and cannot be taken away (gift from God and garanteed by humanity)
Equal in dignity and deprevity => Equal in good and equal in bad

There are differences among human beings in degree but they are still humans

People's dignity and deprevity should be respected. Humans can be reduce below beasts and cruelty
No one can be trusted with absolute power there must be checks and balances.

The declaration fo independance never uses the word "slave" or "slavery". In the hope that later generations that slavery would die off

Alexander Stephens (VP of confederate states) says that black people are not equal to white people. It understands taht the declaration
of indpeendance was wrong. 

In the 19 century, phrenology was floating. Certain measurements can predict certain aptitude
-> can be used to label certain ethnic groups. Based on physical differences some people are mentally better

The illusion of purity became a problem => Degrades people on their physical characteristics

Lincoln critices Roger B Taney's opinion on equality => Should include all people not just white Anglo-Saxon americians that own property

Slavery & The constitution
----------------------------------

The Articles of Confederation The critical period 1781-1787
The battle of YorkTown ended the revolutionary war

Evolution of American Union
The 13 colonies of the british union in 1713 => had a sense of union and were allegiant to the king
Albany Plan of Union: Rejected Plan to create a unified govt for the 13 colonies at the Albany Congress of 1754
1st Contintental Congress 1774
2nd Continental Congress 1776
Articles of Confederations


What were the articles of confederation?
- Establishes principal of state sovereignty (ultimate governing authrortiy over specific territory)
- State make their own aliances an have their own currency



Confederation = an alliance and loose association to states
Preamble: "Perpeutal Union"
Article 3: "a firm league of friendship"
Article 2" "each state retaains in sovereignty, freedom, and independance and every Power, Jurisdiction and right, whcih is not by this confederation expressed"
Article 6: The federal government is supreme in its sphere of operation but not anywhere else => they can estabalish a department of education but cannot say what they teach 
 => 1. common defense
 => 2. security of liberty
 => 3. general welfare


Strength and Weaknesses?
National government was weak and no power to tax. Federal government had to rely on voluntary contributions to operate, Unicameral legislautre, equal representation of states , 2/3 super majority, unanimty required to amend
No executive power to enforce the laws
Laws DO NOT apply to individuals in the state: cnanot be prosecuted under a national law => the national government could not enforce the law, must be done by the states
No natioanal court to judge the laws => they were afraid of the great britain's power

Good:
Northwest ordinance in 1787: North of ohio to the great lakes, west of appalachin to missiple => claimed by britain but after the war... unsettles territory that we gained after the revoliton => banned slavery in this terriroty (exam)
signed treat of paris
govt presided over revolutioanry war
State sovereignty

Bad:
Trade wars among states
border disputes
internaitonal disrespect
no uniform currency
inability to pay army-common defense
inability to pay debt
sectionalism
domestic unrest (shays rebellion)
anarchy of state legisalatures (for example, new york had a lot of loyalist that were loyal to great britian.. under the treaty of paris, they property was protected) Jefferson said that all the power is in the states which creates tyrannay
"An electaive despotism was not the government we fought for" "Government should be devided and balanced among several bodeis of magistracy" (Jefferson)

John Jay says to washington => "Before th war we have a common enemy but now they are fighting against themselves and now we are committing injustice"
Washington says to Jay "You are right... We assume peopel are good but people are special" Men will not do what is right unless they are forced by the federal government

How did the constitiution remedy some of the defects of the articles onfederation?

Shays rebellion shook the articles of confederation => Fight in revolutionary war but when return home farms were forceclosed.... By december the rebellion seizes 6 courthouese
MASS government asks for help from national governemnt but the government said they cannot help => Private army is raised by bejamain franklin
Call for a convetion to revise the articles of confederation but scrapped it to get the real constitution
Shays rebellion influenced the founding fathers that we need a strong federal governemnt

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Populist: the elite are out of range of the common person...  A populist will check the power of the elite => example: Trump, Andrew Jackson
Flyover states: States between the east and west coast
BibleBelt: southern states where there is strong evangelical religion
Swamp
Solid South:
Swing States
Red vs Blue
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The American constitution of 1787 is the longest unbroken constitution.

Government should seek to provide fit habitation for safe and happy human life => life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness
The founders believed their best achieved by
1. Liberty/Freedom
2. Authority/energy/power/vigor => strength

License: the abuse of freedom without moral restraint (excess freedom) in oppistion to natural and moral constituional law. 
When people abuse their freedom, no one respects the law => Leads to the anarchy => People take the law into their own hands (mob rule)

Excess power than is insufficiently checked => tyranny/despotism

Anarchy and Tyranny are not always polar opposite
Populist leaders ahve often exploited the common people to advance themsevles (ex: Ceazar and Trump)

Sugo: Tamatoe sauce => need fresh tamatoes and olive oil => need a compromise between anarchy and tyranny

Constition Reconciling:
Both strengthen and restraints the government 
Strengthens govt


Restriants govt