Due on Nov 9th is a remote class where we have a project as a quiz grade

I must identify my house memeber from my state and 2 senator. We can shamelessly cut and paste from the congressional website of my district. Brief biographies of house and senate => 1 paragraph
House memeber -> include state and district
Need map of the congressional district map, identify in the party 

Nov 16: No in-person class but we have a quiz online at this time (12:30 - 1:45)vv
30-40 questions that cover chapters 5 and 6

The liberty (due process) clause of the 14th amendment applies the bill of rights to the states. No state shall deprive its citizens of life, liberty, and due process 
The SCOTUS thought liberty included freedom of speech and press and nonestablishment.

At the American Civil Liberties Union banned lie detectors test BC it violated the 4th amendment. Lie detectors are a violation of "pleading the 5th"

Civil liberties are listed in the Bill of Rights are fundamental rights, privileges, and immunites
    -> descrimination against historically marginalized groups
    -> laws against descrimnaiton
    -> the 14th amendments equal protection clause

Dr F wrote a book on Freedom of speech and the intro is helpful for the FINAL EXAM

Hate speech is not necessarily always protected.
    => If the hate speech delivers threat or incites iminate law of action, harssment, than it can be restricted. Hate speech can be protected but it depends

1. Freedom of speech is the matrix of a free society => every other rights depends on freedom of speech. The SCOTUS will usually protect freedom of speech but if there is a huge problem it will restrict speech. 
2. Consider standards by the which court decides punishable vs protected speech => What is the line?
3. How has the SCOTUS expanded freedom of speech to actions?

Czech Hate Speech/Group libel law, 2009
Whowever publicly defames a nation, its language, an ethnic group or race, a group of inhabitants of the republic for their political views, religion, or because they are of no religion, will be puushed with confinement for up to 2 years. 

Justice Holmes send that "if there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively calls for attachment than any other it is the principle of free thought - not the free thought for those who agree with us but freedom for thought that we hate"

"Congress shall make no law... abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press"
-> Deceptively simple 
    Congress? 
    No Law? 
    Speech? Expression? Belief vs Action?
The first amendment protects all the above but there is more to it than that 

1st amendment as the Cornerstone and "matrix of a society"

John Stuart Mill said that censorship can deprive humanity of the truth

Functions of free speech in a democracy (Final Exam material)
1. Means to Defend: All other rights against abuse
2. Accountability: Elected Officials - Expose Corruption
3. Informed Public Discource: Deliberation of Policies
4. Virtue: Human Flourishing and Development
5. Safety-valve: (Toleration of Radical Views)
6. Truth: Confirmation of beliefs, correction of wrong ones
7. Individual Autonomy: expression as an end in itself
8. Progress: marketplace of idea of spurs genius, creativity

Alien and Sedition Acts, 1798: John Adams was concerned that French revolutionist would radicalize America and start a second revolution
If anyone writes, print, utter, or publish false, scandalous, and malicious writing against the govt of US with intent to defame => such person shall be fined by $2000 and imprisonment for 2 years. 
    -> Only the democratic republicans were ever punishment on the Alient and Sedition Act
    -> Matthew the "Spitting Lion" was a American Revolutionary War veteran who spit in the face of Nethaniel Griswald referred to John Adams a lunatic for the Alien and Sedititon Act and he was imprisoned.
Thomas Jefferson released those imprisoned because of the Alien and Sedition Act
Could not be removed by SCOTUS bc of Marbury vs Madison was estabilished in (1803)

Shneck vs United States (1919)

Clear and Present Danger Test was estabilished by Justice Holmes as a standard of free speech: "The question in every case whether the words are used in such 
circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent"

Griswald vs Connecticut (1965): Established the right to privacy which allowed birth control

The First Amendment is the most important because all other rights depend on it.
Safety-Valve argument: If you continuously censor someone's opinions then when they release them it may be violent. 
=> More damage is done via censorship

Texas vs Johnson by the SCOTUS protected the burning of the American flag.

Brandenburg vs Ohio (1969): Refined the Shneck vs United States on what is clear and present danger
    Direct Incitement Test: "such advocacy is directed to inciting o producing imminent lawless action and is likely to incite or product such action"
Clarenece Brandenburg is a grand wizard of the KKK. Brandenburg demand blacks should go back to Africa and Jews back to Israel criticizes the Civil Rights Act
Invited clan members and makes a ultimatum => If the blacks and jews are not sent back, then vengence might have to be taken. KKK members in white gowns pointed guns at people
and made this ultimatum on film

Clarence used the word "might", so there is not gaurantee that he would => The SCOTUS defended him as not guilty


Freedom of the Press:
Defamation:
1. Libel
2. Slander