The Final Exam will consists of 50 multiple choice on the material since the mid term (Look at syllabus)
Focuses on the 3 branches of government
Includes an essay question where he will give us the prompt in advance

A hard copy is due the date of the final exam (Take home essay)

For example, 
 - Discuss judiciary power in article 2 => What are some of the limits of judicial power?
 - Discuss the significance of federal 78 

Due Process: Rights gauranteed to the accused found in the 4th, 5th, 6th amendment
Miranda vs Arizona => the right to remain silent
Gideon vs Wainright => right to lawyer
Mapp vs Ohio => 


Civil Rights: Rights that pertain to group membership
- Right to vote
- Protection against descrimination by groups
- Protects against race, sex, ethnicity

14th amendment's equal protection clause gives us civil rights

Right to privacy case:
    - Griswald vs Connecticute
    - Expanded in Row vs Wade => Overturned by Dobbs vs Jackson

In 1865, at the end of the Civil War, civil war amendments were added
13th amendment: abolishes slavery => the emancipation proclaimation did not do anything because Lincoln had no control of the slave states 
    => Increases the federal governments power over the states.
    => African Americans were called Freedmen but had a hard time transitioning to free people. What role does the federal government play?
    => The South wrote up Black Codes around 1866 to restrict African Americans. The freed slaves had no land or no place to work?

Reconstruction (1866 - 1876) attempts to reunite the country after the American Civil War. 
    => Questions the full citizenship of African Americans? Questions the descrimination of African Americans?
    => Vagarency laws: If you are wandering without employment, then you are a menace to society targeted African Americans. Forced African Americans to work
    => Black codes stripped them of their second amendment rights and their right to assembly, could not testify against white people, could not marry white people

14th Amendment is passed in response to the black codes gave equal protection under the laws (Equal Protection Clause).
1. Birthright citizenship of African American males => Federick Douglas (favored women's right but did not actively push it) vs Susan B Anthony (demanded women's rights)
                                                    => Overrides the Dred Scott Decision
2. No state shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens in other states. 
3. No state shall deprive its citizens of life, liberty, or property without the due process of law => Doctrine of Incorporation
The Republicans made an effort to protect the Freedman during reconstruction passed the 14th amendment 

15th Amendment gave black men the right to vote but not women.

The Radical Republicans preside over Reconstruction and they impeach President Johnson (Lincoln's VP). 
Johnson believed that states should have broad discretion over Reconstruction and wanted to leave African Americans vulnerable to lynching,
black codes, and terrorize African Americans. 

Nathan Bedford Forest found the Ku Klux Klan which attempts to dwarf African American freedoms in the south. Starts with former confederates but evolves into white supremacist groups
In 1871, the Ku Klyx Klan Act suspends the writ of habeas corpus to combat the Ku Klux Klan and other terrorist organizations who had terrorized and murdered innocent African Americans.  

In 1876, Reconstruction ends and there is a draw in Electoral College (Hayes -> Republican vs Tilden -> democratic)
A commission is created to resolve the problem => Hayes becomes the president (GOP) but the federal army must withdraw troops from South. => Creates descrimination in the south with grandfather clause and poll taxes

Plessey vs Fergurson (1896): The SCOTUS decides "separate but equal" is protected under the 14th amendments equal protection clause. 
Plessey vs Fergurson provides protection for Jim Crow was white actor that had black paint make up

In 1948, President Harry S Truman de-segregates the United States army and allows black and white troops to coexist by an executive order. 

NAACP: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People

Brown vs Board of Education (1954): Earl Warren and Thurgood Marshall reverse Plessey vs Ferguson => Led to de-segregation in schooling but was not enforced 
De jure discrimination: By law, there cannot be segregation in school
De Facto descrimination: By fact, there is segregation in school
Thurgood Marshall becomes the First African American justice on the Supreme court 

In 1957, governor Orvell of Arkansas uses the state national gaurd to intimidate black kids to attend a different school.   

Martin Luther King and Rosa Parks resist unjust laws peacefully 

In 1964, the landmark Civil Rights Act is passed which provides protection to African Americans to private accomodations and employment.
Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965 

The 24th Amendment outlaws poll taxes, grandfather, and literacy tests clauses which disinfranchises African Americans