Quiz Nov 9th on M/C during class time but online at class (Chapters 5 - 6)

Extra Credit: Thursday (Nov 2nd) at 5 PM at the Mackenzie Commons Building 6 (College of liberal arts across from Wallace library) there is going to be a talk and listen to a talk
-> +3 on out total average. 

Chapter 5: Deals with the topic of civil liberties
The fundamental protections and immunities ganrantee, safegaurds, rights in the Bill of Rights (The first 10 amdendments of the constituion)
Exam: We need to know the major provisions of the bill of righst (all 10 amendments)
1. Freedom of speech, press, religion, assembly, petition (right petition for regress of grievance => ask (sue) the govt for compensation if wrong doing)
    - Nonestablishment clause: Congress shall not pass a law respecting an estabalishment of religion
    - Free exercise Clause: Congress shall not deny the exercise of religion
    => Congress cannot estabalish a national religion
2. Right to bear arms
3. No peace time quater of soliders
4. Protection against Unwarrented Search and seizure 
5. Protection against self-incrimination => "I plead the 5th"
6. Guarantees rights of criminal defendants => public trial, lawyer, impartial jury, who are the accusers, the nature of charges, and evidence against you
7. Right for citizens to have a jury trial in federal courts with civil cases where the claim exceeds a certain dollar value
8. Protects against excessive bail, excessive fines, and crue and unusual punishments 
9. The Bill of Rights specified these enumerated rights but there exist other rights not listed here (The people have unenumerated rights in the Bill of Rights).
10. Powers not delegated to the United States by the Constituion, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people of

Right to privacy -> no explicit right to privacy in Constituion (Griswald vs Connecticut) => the court argues that the Constituion implies a right to privacy, given other spriit and general provisions
Dobbs vs Jackson <====> Roe vs Wade


Antifederalist criticize the Constituion of 1787 BC there was no Bill of Rights 
-> Critics of the Constituion (thought the Constituion was too powerful and swallowed the rights and liberties of citizens)
-> Brutus (readings) from New York warned about an independent judiciary in which the judge would substitute his opnion for the opinoin of the people (judicial oligarchy)
-> Favored strong state government and limited national government and local government and a more direct democracy at the state and local level.

Federalist:
-> Supported the ratification of the Constiution in 1787
-> Strong nationalist and wanted stronger federal government
-> Federalist papers (series of 86 essays) by Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison 

Federalist -> Hamilton's party
Democratic Republicans -> Jefferson's party 

Originally, the Bill of Rights did not apply to the state governments, only to the federal government
First amendment has Congress make no law respecting an estabalishment of religon (1st amendment) only applied to the national govt. 
    -> Massachusetts had state religion of congregation but then the state abolished this religion
    -> the bill of rights does not apply to the state
=> The Supreme Court case Barron vs Baltimore (1868) decided the Bill of Rights did NOT apply to state and local government. 
Nowadays, the Bill of Rights apply to the state and local govt, which expands the power of the federal government. 

In 1868, Barron vs Baltimore was superceded (overruled) by the 14th Amendment => Provides equal protection of the laws regardless of race, sex, politics, and descriminated groups of poeple which limits the power of states.

Civil War amendments to place restrictons on power of state
13 Amendment: abolishes slavery
14 Amendment: Provides equal protection of the laws regardless of race, sex, politics, and descriminated groups of poeple => Conferred rights to the newly freed slaves. 
15 Amendment: The right to vote shall not be denied on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude

(Under the 14th amendment)
Citizenship Clause: Guarantee birth right citizenship to Americans. 
Due Process clause: No state may depreive its citizens of priveliges and immunities of life, liberty, or due process of law, of equal protection => so black codes cannot re-enslave people in other ways
    Privileges and immunites are the ability to run for office, own property, public education, travel, marriage

Doctrine of Incorporation of Selective Incorporation (Incorportaion): The book includes a number of crucial cases where we need to know where the Bill of Rights was incorporated (Quiz)
1. Gitlow vs New York (1925): The court incorporated the free speech provision of the first amendment into the state => argued that life, liberty, and due process needs fundamental freedoms in the Bill of Rights
    => Argues that life needs the right to marriage and travel. => First time the United States reviewed state laws
2. Smith vs Oregan: The Supreme Court decided that the practice of smoking peyote under Native American religion is not protected under the first amendment. => Allows the state to regulate drugs. 
3. Cantwell vs Connecticut: estabalished free exercise of religion in 1940s
4. Miranda vs Kerr: estabalished the right to remain silent.

The First Amendment:
Originally, the Antifederalist complained the Constituion did not have a Bill of Rights, so they thought they would be oppressed by the federal government. 
Federalist made had a gentlemen's agreement that if the Antifederalist ratified the Constituion then a Bill of Rights would be included. 

Hamilton was against the Bill of Rights => Hamilton argued that enumerated rights restricted the rights of citizens.

When we look at civil conflicts we must consider the balance Conflict -> Govt authority + state authority vs Individual rights

Supreme Court decides in Schneck vs United States that freedoms in the Bill of Rights are not absolute (there are limits to these freedoms). 
    Schneck vs United States: During World War 1, Schneck wrote pamphlets to disobey World War 1 orders, the Supreme Court decided that the 1st Amendment did not protect Schneck as the United States is at war. 
    The state of West Virginia wanted to protect children under police powers but a religious sect argued that handling poisonous rattle snakes was part of their religion
    The state of Utah does not allow polygamy relation (having many wives)

Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act to protect the religious freedoms of Native Americans. 